---
sidebar_position: 2
title: "ID"
---

# Account ID

:::note
An immutable and unique identifier for the `Account`.
:::

The `Account` ID is a 120-bit long number. This identifier is designed to contain the metadata of an account. The metadata includes the [account type](#account-type), [account storage mode](#account-storage-mode) and the version of the `Account`. This metadata is included in the ID to ensure it can be read without needing the full account state.

The ID is generated by hashing a randomly generated seed together with commitments to the initial code and storage of the `Account` until the resulting ID has the desired account type and storage mode. This process requires a small amount of Proof-of-Work (9 bits) that can be done even by low-powered devices. The resulting 256-bit hash is shortened to 120 bits.

Account type and storage mode are chosen at account creation time and cannot be changed later.

### Account type

There are two main categories of accounts in Miden: **basic accounts** and **faucets**.

- **Basic Accounts:**
  Basic Accounts may be either mutable or immutable:

  - _Mutable:_ Code can be changed after deployment.
  - _Immutable:_ Code cannot be changed once deployed.

- **Faucets:**
  Faucets are always immutable and can be specialized by the type of assets they issue:
  - _Fungible Faucet:_ Can issue fungible [assets](../asset).
  - _Non-fungible Faucet:_ Can issue non-fungible [assets](../asset).

### Account storage mode

Users can choose whether their accounts are stored publicly or privately. The preference is encoded in the third and fourth most significant bits of the account's ID:

- **Public Accounts:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, similar to how accounts are stored in public blockchains like Ethereum.

- **Network `Account`s:**
  The account's state is stored on-chain, just like **public** accounts. Additionally, the network will monitor this account for any public notes targeted at it and attempt to create network transactions against the account, which consume the notes. Contracts that rely on a shared, publicly accessible state (e.g., an AMM) should be network accounts.

- **Private Accounts:**
  Only a commitment (hash) to the account's state is stored on-chain. This mode is suitable for users who prioritize privacy or plan to store a large amount of data in their `Account`. To interact with a private `Account`, a user must have knowledge of its interface.

## Encoding

:::info
Bech32 is the preferred encoding format and should be used for user-facing applications like wallets or websites.
:::

An `Account` ID can be encoded in different formats:

1. [**Bech32**](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki) (user-facing):
  - Example: `mm1apk5f8jqxnadegr46xtklmm78qhdgkwc`
  - **Benefits**:
    - Built-in error detection via checksum algorithm
    - Human-readable prefix indicates network ID
    - Less prone to transcription errors
  - **Structure**:
    - [Human-readable prefix](https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0173.md) that
      determines the network:
      - `mm` (indicates **M**iden **M**ainnet)
      - `mtst` (indicates Miden Testnet)
      - `mdev` (indicates Miden Devnet)
    - Separator: `1`
    - Data part with integrated checksum

2. **Hexadecimal**:
  - Example: `0xd7585ada5ab5d2b01c77fad88c0ae4`
  - Frequently used encoding for blockchain addresses
  - Used to identify accounts in command-line interfaces or explorers.
